# Owning Vs Inverse Relations

We need to talk about a very, very important and, honestly, super-confusing part
of Doctrine relations! Listen closely: this is the *ugliest* thing we need to talk
about. So, let's get through it, put a big beautiful check mark next to it, then
move on!

It's called the owning versus inverse sides of a relationship, and it's deals with
the fact that you can always look at a single relationship from two different
directions. You can either look at the `Comment` and say that this has one `article`,
so, this is `ManyToOne` to `Article`:

[[[ code('fedcd0d3c7') ]]]

Or you can go to `Article` and - for that same one relationship, you can say that
this `Article` has many comments:

[[[ code('a872894a35') ]]]

So, what's the big deal then? We already know that you can *read* data from either
direction. You can say `$comment->getArticle()` or `$article->getComments()`. But,
can you also *set* data on both sides? Well... that's where things get interesting.

## Set the Inverse Side

In `ArticleFixtures`, we've proven that you *can* use `$comment->setArticle()` to
set the relationship:

[[[ code('c15740806d') ]]]

Everything persists perfectly to the database. But now, comment those out. Instead,
set the data from the *other* direction: `$article->addComment($comment1)` and
`$article->addComment($comment2)`:

[[[ code('c0004117c1') ]]]

We're adding the comments to the `comments` collection on `Article`. By the way,
don't worry that this code lives *after* the call to `persist()`. That's actually
fine: the code just needs to come before `flush()`.

Anyways, let's try it! Find your terminal, sip some coffee, and reload the fixtures:

```terminal
php bin/console doctrine:fixtures:load
```

Ok, no errors! Check the database:

```terminal
php bin/console doctrine:query:sql 'SELECT * FROM comment"
```

Yea! It *does* still work! The comments saved correctly, *and* each has its
`article_id` set.

So, I guess we found our answer: you can get and *set* data from *either* side of
the relationship. Well... that's not actually true!

## Synchronizing the Owning Side

Hold `Command` or `Ctrl` and click the `addComment()` method to jump into it:

[[[ code('c3f5bedb6e') ]]]

Look closely: this code was generated by the `make:entity` command. First, it checks
to make sure the comment isn't *already* in the `comments` collection, just to avoid
duplication on that property. Then, of course, it adds the comment to the `$comments`
property. But *then*, it does something very important: it calls `$comment->setArticle($this)`.

Yep, this code *synchronizes* the data to the *other* side of the relationship.
It makes sure that if you add this `Comment` to this `Article`, then the `Article`
is also set on the `Comment`.

Let's try something: comment out the `setArticle()` call for a moment:

[[[ code('ed7aa44f75') ]]]

Then, go back to your terminal and reload the fixtures:

```terminal-silent
php bin/console doctrine:fixtures:load
```

Woh! Explosion! When Doctrine tries to save the first comment, its `article_id` is
empty! The relationship is *not* being set correctly!

## Owning Versus Inverse

*This* is *exactly* what I wanted to talk about. Every relationship has two
sides. One side is known as the *owning* side of the relation and the other
is known as the *inverse* side of the relation. For a ManyToOne and OneToMany relation, 
the *owning* side is always the ManyToOne side:

[[[ code('a4a3cdc0b0') ]]]

And, it's easy to remember: the owning side is the side where the actual *column*
appears in the database. Because the `comment` table will have the `article_id` column,
the `Comment.article` property  is the owning side. And so, `Article.comments` is the
*inverse* side:

[[[ code('69203a6d5e') ]]]

The reason this is *so* important is that, when you relate two entities together
and save, Doctrine *only* looks at the *owning* side of the relationship to figure
out what to persist to the database. Right now, we're *only* setting the *inverse*
side! When Doctrine saves, it looks at the `article` property on Comment - the
owning side - sees that it is null, and tries to save the Comment with *no* Article!

The owning side is the *only* side where the data matters when saving.
In fact, the *entire* purpose of the *inverse* side of the relationship is just...
convenience! It only exists because it's useful to be able to say
`$article->getComments()`. That was *particularly* handy in the template.

## The Inverse Side is Optional

Heck, the inverse side of a relationship is even optional! The `make:entity`
command *asked* us if we wanted to generate the inverse side. We could delete *all*
of the `comments` stuff from `Article`, and the relationship would still exist in
the database *exactly* like it does now. And, we could still use it. We wouldn't
have our fancy `$article->getComments()` shortcut anymore, but everything else
would be fine.

I'm explaining this so that *you* can hopefully avoid a huge WTF moment in the
future. If you ever try to relate two entities together and it is *not* saving,
it may be due to this problem.

I'm going to uncomment the `setArticle()` call:

[[[ code('a21a90732e') ]]]

In practice, when you use the `make:entity` generator, it takes care of this
ugliness automatically, by generating code that synchronizes the owning side
of the relationship when you set the *inverse* side. But, keep this concept
in mind: it may eventually bite you!

Back in `ArticleFixtures`, refactor things back to `$comment->setArticle()`:

[[[ code('0120cb1970') ]]]

But, *we* know that, thanks to the code that was generated by `make:entity`,
we *could* instead set the inverse side.

Next, let's setup our fixtures properly, and do some *cool* stuff to generate
comments and articles that are randomly related to each other.
