# Errors Logout

Coming soon...

If we put in a username that doesn't exist, we get the user name could not be found error message and we saw a second ago that inner authenticator, if we return false from check credentials, the air is something about invalid credentials, so the point is, depending on where authentication fails, you get a couple of guilt in messages, so the question is what if you want to customize those because using them cannot be found is not a very good error message. When you have an email, the answer is there are two different ways. First, there is a way. There's two different ways. The first way is by throwing spent the first. The first way involves three special exception. Inside this class, we're going to see that later when we talk about API authentication. The second way is to translate this message. No, this isn't a tutorial about a translation, but if you look at our login template, you see when we actually print out this air dot message key thing, we actually run it through symphonies translation filter and run it through something that's called a security domain. Another way to look at this as if you look at the web debug toolbar down here, 

there's a little translation thing here you can click on, you can actually see this is information about the translations on this page. There's only one thing being translated and it's that user name could not be found. The message which is being translated into user name could not be found 

actually in the core of symphony. Symphony has translation files for most languages that translate these into into other languages. So if we, if we were using the Spanish locale, you'd actually see these Spanish version of this message here. Well anyway, so we're not worried about translations really, but we can because this is being passed to the translator, we can actually change this message to a different message and it's super simple. In your translations directory, create a security. It's called security because it's being passed through this security domain, which is Kinda like a translation category that e n, that's all. Okay. Look how dot gamble. Instead of here, I'll literally copied the message ID. That insight quotes paste. It will assign it to a new message called junior message. Oh No, it doesn't look like that email exists. If you go back to your browser and go back to your login page. In theory, if you try logging in again, this should work instantly, but you can see that it doesn't. That's a small bug in symphony, whenever you create a new translation, whenever you create your first translation file, you actually need to manually clear the cache. I'll do that. I'll do that with bin Console. Cache, colon clear. You won't need to do that again. Just when you create this first file. 

When that finishes go over, log in again with the battery email, email and awesome. Got It. Alright, so it was one of the things I want to do right now and that is allow us to log out and see. I'm still logged in a space bar one, an example.com. This starts pretty similar to the login page. Close a couple of files here. Go to your security controller and right under the login method make another function called log out. And above this, I'll add the normal app route annotation for slash log out and we'll give it a name of APP slash log out. Cool. Now here is the interesting part. We do need to create this route, however, we don't need to write the logic to log the user out. In fact, I'm going to say throw a new exception 

will not will be intercepted before getting here in the same way that the authentication system runs automatically at the beginning of the request. Our authentication authentic are our authenticator runs at the beginning of each request. Log out process also runs at the beginning of the request automatically. The only thing you need to do to activate it is go into your firewall and add a new key called logout. And below that add a path option and point this to the route of your log out. Log out route. So for us it's APP underscore log out. So app underscore log out. That's it, thanks to this, whenever we access the APP, log out route at the beginning of their requests, simply will automatically log us out and take care of everything. So let's try it, go up here, go to slash the log out and yes we've got it because he done here. We're back to anonymous. There are other things you can customize under. Log out there, other options and you can find those on the symphony reference section.