# Login Form

Coming soon...

There are two steps to building a log in form authentication system. There is the visual part, the actual html login form, and then there's the security part that actually checks, finds the user, checks the password and logs them in. The first part, the visual part has nothing to do with security and actually it's in. That's where we're going to start. Our first step is just to build a log in page and they can look however we want and actually make a bundle. There is a plan to make a command to even do this for you automatically, but it's not done yet, so that's okay. We'll do it by hand and we'll learn some things along the way. Let's at least use the new bin console and use the make controller command to build a new controller class called 

security controller. 

Move over and open that up. Now the end point we actually want is slash login. I'll make the name of this route app slash login and we'll change the method to log in. Then I won't pass any variables yet and we'll call the template logging that. Each team on that twig down here in templates, we'll go into the security directory and rename that index dot html dot twig to log in that eight month twig and it should work. So let's move over. We'll go to slash login and yes, perfect. Variable controller name does not exist because I just removed that a second ago from my controller. So let's go and clear out all the existing code, changed the title to be logging in for now. We'll just put an [inaudible] that says log into the space bar. Now if we move over and try that. Perfect. It doesn't look good yet. We'll get there, but the page is functional. So the bill is the login form itself. I want you to Google for symphony login form and you'll find a page on the documentation called how to build a traditional login form. And we're doing this because there because there's a little bit of boilerplate code that we need to, 

to um, copy 

which hopefully will be made easier in the future by just to come in that does this scroll down a little bit. You'll eventually see a login method just like ours with a little bit of logic filled in a copy of the body of that logic, move over and go to our controller and paste that in. This needs a authentication utils class, which they're getting as an argument, so let's also add that I had an argument with authentication, utils authentication, utils, and then these two new variables are passed in as variables to our twig template, so I'll copy that and paste it over there. Now in a few minutes we're going to talk about how these two variables are set. They deal with authentication heirs, and they also deal in the last user name that was previously tried if they fail, but for now just assume that these two variables that are passing two variables into our template and they exist. 

Okay. 

The other thing you can copy down here is a little html form, so I'll copy this html form, move over and we'll paste that and you'll notice there's nothing special about this form. It has a user name field that has a password field and actually we're going to customize it so don't look at it too closely. So if you move over now and refresh, oh, we actually get an error, unable to generate a url for the named route login, and this is coming from log into H, two months. Wic of course, so this hasn't actually equals, I'm pointing to a route called login. Ours is called APP underscore login, but actually I'm going to remove that action equals entirely. When a form doesn't have an action attribute, it just means that submits right back to the same url, which is actually what we're ultimately going to want. So now when we refresh, perfect, it looks awful, but it's an html form. Very, very simple to make this not a way. I'm going to go back and replace this form with a bootstrap version. You can copy this, this new form from the code block on this page, 

and before we look at the specifics of this shoot, if we refresh right, it's still going to look ugly and that's because we actually need a new css file for this, so go back and if you download the course code, you should have a tutorial directory here with two new css files. Let's copy logging that css and then find your public directory and we're just going to put pace that and do public slash css. In this tutorial. We're not using webpack encore only because we haven't talked about it yet. Webpack encore is a really great way of handling your css and javascript and we have a tutorial about it on the site, but for now we're keeping things simple. We just have a login dot css inside of our public directory, so now I want to include the login that css only on this page. If you remember from an earlier tutorial, 

if you look at our base, that html Twig, you'll notice that it has three css files right here and it's based layout in there. Instead of a block called style sheets, so we want to add something, we effectively want to add a new link to right below styles dot css to do that and log into html dot twig. We can say lock style sheets into block to override that block, but we don't really want to fully override the style sheets block we want to add to it, so to do that call parents that will echo the three parent style sheets and then blow. We can add our own. So I'll type link and then I can start typing. Logging that CSS and Petri storm will help me fill that in with the normal asset function. Now if you go back and refresh it looks much better except I don't need that h one tag there anymore. Cool. 

So, so this, even though this looks much better, but it's still just a very boring html field. I've changed to. I now have a an email field and a password field. Now. We don't actually have a password yet in our application, but we're going to add it later and so I just added this field now that we have it, and then we also have a remember me check box here here, which we'll talk about later, so very, very simple html form. You can build it however you want. Now later when we start talking about authentication airs, this error variable is ultimately going to get printed inside of this div, so I'm just going to plan ahead and add a little bootstrap styling to that so that that air looks red once that happens, and then the last thing is to perfect this is if you look at the upper right corner of our page, we have a little user dropdown. Well that's actually all just hard coded fake. Go back into base to a twig. Looked down here and you'll see. Yep. All of this. Scroll down a little bit. Yup. You'll see just a big drop down here with a bunch of hard coded data for right now. I am going to comment that out. We'll bring it back to later once we can actually log in and we'll make it real again. Then I'm going to copy and ally from above 

paste that right here and we'll call this link log in and we'll make a linked to APP underscore login. Alright, refresh and perfect. We can go back to the home page where you can click to the log in form. That's it. So at this point we've graded an html form. Nothing special at all. Simple, stupid, easy. It can look however you want, but now we are ready to fill in the logic of when we submit the form to actually handle authentication. Will do that with something called an authenticator. We'll do it next.