# Role Hierarchy Impersonation

Coming soon...

So far in our site we are protecting some pages, like IRA account page, we're just making sure that the user's logged in and then there are a couple of admin pages. If you open an article, admin controller and common have controller, both of these are protected by enroll Evan 

and you might have a site that just needs that. They have normally users and then you have one set of admin users that have access to everything, but if you have a more complex setup or a bigger company than you might have different groups of people that should have access to some things and other groups of people that should have access to other things. So the question is what's the best way to handle that with roles. One thing we could do is you could try to protect the sections by the types of users that should have access to them. Like roll editor for article Admin Controller. The problem with that is you know what, if also a manager, somebody really high up on the company should have access to this too, but they're technically not an editor. No. That's a bad description. And this isn't a bad way of doing this, you could then give this role to every single user that needs to have access to the article and my controller, but it's not exactly clear if I give someone the role editor in the database exactly what they get access to. So instead of that like to do is protect things by specifically a role that specifically describes what they're protecting. So for example, role admin article 

for article admin controller, and then for common admin controller role admin 

comment. 

Now we have this nice specific granular roles also open your based on age too, twink because remember there's one other spot here where we use role admin and that is to hide or show to create post now ready to use that same thing. Role Avid article, snowing these nice, very specific roles. The only problem is if you go to slash admin slash comment, we don't have access and even if we logged in as an Admin user or admin users currently only have 

roll 

admin. So yeah, we could go back in here and also ad role admin comment and role admin article. But this highlights a bit of an annoying problem and that is that if you use this nice specific fuse roles that described exactly what they're protecting, every time you add a new section and introduce a new role, you need to go into the database and add that role to all of the users that need access to that. That's kind of a bummer. Fortunately, symphony has a really cool feature called Raul higher arche back in totally fixed. This opened up config packages security that yammel anywhere inside of here. I'll do it at about firewalls added role hierarchy. 

Okay, 

and down below, say role admin make an array and say role admin comment and it role admin article. It's just that simple. Now anybody that has role admin also has role admin comment and role admin article. So to prove that this works, I'm actually going to go back, let's log out so that we can log back in with one of our admin users, password engage. Then I'll go back to slash admin slash comment and access. Granted. What this allows you to do then is you can actually start to organize your anytime. You can identify the different groups of people in your company, like roll editor and give them access to whatever sections you want inside of here. Then roll editor would be the thing that you were actually assigned to the user, so whenever you push a new section of the site, if the editors need access to it, then you just add that new role to the rural editor and every editor has access to that installing. Now while we're here, I'm going to talk about one other really cool feature which is called switch user. A lot of times, and here's, here's how it works. If you're an Admin user, sometimes if you're helping debugging an issue for the user, you'll be really convenient. If you could just log in as that user for a second and you can totally do that 

insecurity, that Yammel Andrea your firewall. I'm at a new key called switch underscore user set to true. As soon as you do this, you can go to any page on the site and add question mark underscore switch underscore user equals, and then the email address of some user you want to switch to. So we'll say space bar one at example, dot com. Now when we do this, we get an access tonight and that is because of course we don't want to allow every single user in the system to use this little trick. That would be a huge problem. Internally. Symphony requires you to have a special role in order to be in order to do this. If you go back to secure that Yammel give role admin one more roll roll allowed to switch. Any user that has this role is allowed to do this magic. So Watch. I still have the underscore switched underscore user equals in the url when I refresh, that's gone, but now I'm switched to that user. You can see it down here. Spacebar one at example. Dot Com. Of course I get access. I on this page like go around and I'm actually logged in as them. I can serve around the site and this is actually that, that user, by the way, the reason that's a question mark 

underscore swish underscore user equals. And then the email address is because of our user provider. Remember, this is the code inside the symphony that helps reload the user from the session, but this is also called when you would buy these switch user functionality and if you're using the doctrine user provider like we are, then this property email is actually what determines which field to look up on. Now, one of the small issues with switch users that it's not obvious when you were switching user, sometimes you can switch and you can forget that you switched and you can start doing weird things in the site. So first the way that you can exit from it is the same underscore switch underscore user with a special underscore exit that will pop us back to our normal user. So I'm gonna switch back again to space for1@example.com and one of the issues is it's not obvious when you switched so it's easy to forget that you switched. So was a cool way to fix this. Go into your base, that age, that tweak and go all the way up to the top. Where can see the body tag. When you are switched over to a user symphony gives you a special role called role previous Admin, they give that to you so that you can determine whether or not you are currently switched. So we can say if his car is granted role, previous Admin, 

then I'm going to add a little block up here. It says you are currently switched to this user will even add a link to switch away from this. So we'll path is the path function will lead to Atlanta or homepage for. Remember, we need to have that underscore switch underscore user equals underscore exit. So we can actually pass this as the second argument here. Underscore, switch underscore, user equals underscore exit. And then inside of here I'll say exit impersonation. 

Alright, so let's try that move over and refresh and yes you can see it right here. And if you look at the url there, question mark underscore, switch underscore, user equals underscore exit. Now, one thing that might confuse you about that is if you go down to your templates article homepage, that h way, and you go down to our article lists, you might remember that the second argument of the function is normally used to fill in the wild cards for a route. So I'm going to hold command or control and click article show. You can see this route has a slug wildcard, so when we linked to it, we pass it. The slug wildcard is the second argument and that's normal. That's the normal reason that that's the neural of purpose of the second argument to path. However, you can also, if you want to pass other things too, the second argument, and if they are not, if there is no wild card, if this, if the key here doesn't match a wildcard in the route, then it just becomes a query parameter on the end of the url. So that's why that works. So we can click x and presentation and we're back to normal in awesome feature.