# Success Error Last Username

Coming soon...

If our authenticator is successfully able to return a user and we returned truth and get credentials, then our user is logged in. Basically we've done it, but not. The last question somebody asks is, okay, after authentication, what do you want to do? Well, any form login system, what we want to do is redirect to another page. So first question is, hmm. Simply asks, what do you want to do to do this and calls on authentication success, and what we need to do here is actually return a response object. We want to return the response that the user should see when they log in successfully or we can do nothing and the request we'll just continue. That's something we'll talk about later where the API token authentication, but in a form login situation, what we want to do is redirect. So how do we redirect and symphony in a controller, there's actually a this arrow redirect 

to route shortcut method. If you hold command or control, click into that. You can see what it does. It'll average is two different methods. One called this air redirect in another one called generate url. Look at each of these. If you look at redirect first, what it does is extra return. A new redirect response. You see a redirect is actually just a special type of response that has a 300, one or three o two status code with a special header that tells the user where to go. That's all we need to do is create a new redirect response. I'll go back and click into redirect route again. The second thing it does is of course we don't want to hard code the url to the homepage, so this call is another method called generate url. You don't want to do that. I'll go back to redirect to route to my controller and clear that out. So now log in form authenticator. We're going to return a new redirect response and we're going to redirect to the homepage, but I don't want to just hard code the homepage. Our home page has a route. The route name is app underscore homepage, 

so we want to generate a url to that homepage. We know how to do this in Twig, but how do we do it when we're inside of a service? Well, the answer is that you need symphonies, routers, service to figure out the type to get that run. Bin Console, debug auto wiring. 

Then I'll look up here for something related to routing and yes, there it is. See we have a router interface that we can use to get some router service actually as a few different interfaces that you can use, but I usually use router interface. They all give you the same service, so over here we'll go back to the top a lot. A second constructor argument for router interface router. I'll do alt enter to initialize that field. Then down below we can say this Arrow router arrow generate generate to APP underscore homepage. Okay guys, we just haven't filled in this last method yet, but we are ready to go. Let's move over. 

I'll hit enter to go back to the login page so you can see the full process. I'm not going to space nerd one password, doesn't matter. Hit Enter and it worked. How do I know? Check out the web ebook toolbar. We are logged in as space bar one at example, dot com. Yes, and actually something very special. This happened on the post request are authenticated and log this in. Then it redirected. The reason we're still logged in is that our authentication information was stored to the session and at the beginning of every request. Now that user information is loaded from the session and were still logged in, look back at your security. That yammel file. Remember this user provider thing that was set up for us? This is a class internally that helps with that process of reloading the user. It's a little bit complex. It's a little bit confusing, but it's super important. When were you refresh the page? Our user object is loaded from the session, but we want to make sure that this user object isn't out of date with our database. Like for example, if I logged in it work, 

how long did it at home, then went to work and logged in and changed some information in my user. When I go back home and refresh, we need to make sure that the user object has all the fresh data from the session, not all of the outreach, possibly out of date, a data that was stored in the session to do that, automatically our user provider looks at the user object from the session, uses its ID to query for a fresh user is all happens invisibly, but the point is your user objects stored at the session, but symphony makes sure that it's always fresh at the beginning of every single request. That is the main job of your user provider. All right, so let's go back to the login page because honestly what happens when we fail login, which is only possible right now by using a fake email address and oh, cannot redirect to an empty url. And if you look down here, this is actually coming from our abstract form login authenticator. If you looked into it, the problem is that the authenticator is trying to call or get log in url. That's because if we fail, if we fail log in, of course what we want to do is redirect back to the login page, but we need to tell the authenticator where this is so return this Arrow router error, generate 

APP underscore login. All right, try it again, refresh and perfect, and you even see that we get the air up here, username and not be found. 

We get that exact error because the step that fails is the get user message in a little bit. I'll show you how to customize that message to say, email cannot be found. For example, if we failed to get credentials method, instead we'll log in with a legitimate user. You'll see that it's automatically an invalid credentials message, but more than that, I'm going to show you how this is working because if you go into security controller, remember we're getting the air just by calling some authentication utils, get last authentication error, and then we're passing that into our template and we are rendering a message key property on that. So the whole handling of the authentication error is happening a bit magically and I want to demystify that a little bit. If you scroll to the top of your authentic cater and hold command or control to click and click into abstract form, log and authentic later. In reality, when authentication fails, this on authentication failure message is called and see. What it does is it takes the air message which is stored on the exception variable and it stores it in the session. Then in our controller, when we say get last authentication error, I'm going to hold command again. 

No, not not going to do that. That's actually a shortcut to go read that key off of the session, so are authentic stores the air and the session, and then we read the air off our controller and we render it. Then it calls get logged in. You were out and it redirects us there, so no magic going on. Now you'll notice if you go back in and fail authentication again with a fake email address, when you come back to the email address, field is empty, which is not ideal. We should prefill that with the email that they just put in, but if you look in your country, if you look in your controller, we're using that same authentication utils to also get something called get last username, which is the value that we put into that field. We're passing this into our template, but I forgot to render this as a value on my email field. It's no problem. Let's say value equals 

curly curly, last username. However, unlike the error messages, the last user name is not automatically stored in the session. This is something that we need to do inside of our login form authenticator. Super easy to do and get credentials. Instead of returning, say prudential's equals. At this point we know exactly what email is being set, so let's set this in the session by saying request Arrow, get session, Arrow set, and when you use a special constant here called security, get the one from the security components last user name and set that to credentials email that will store this value in the session, which is where getting in the get last year's and a method reads that key off of the session. Then at the bottom we'll return the same credentials, so the last user name and the air are both set to the session and we read those. Now if we go back, log in with that same email address again, we get the air in. This time the email stays awesome. So let's learn how to customize these error messages and we need to add a log out link so that we can actually start logging out. Let's do that next.