# Voters

Coming soon...

Here's the goal, I want to continue to require role admin article to be able to go to the new article page, but down here, if you're editing an article, I want you to be, I want you allow access if you have the rural add an article or if you're the author of this article. So first let's move. The APP is granted from above the class just down to the new method. Now, it only applies to this method in temporarily. Our edit endpoint is totally wide open to the world now, right now, right now we're looking at article ID 20. It's actually moved back here and once again, look at all the articles, article idea 20. Its author is id 18, so let's run bin Counsel Doctrine Query sql, select star from user where ID equals 18 and okay, cool. This is spacebar for@example.com. So let's log in as that user and I go back, put a login space for example, dot com, password engage and perfect. We still have access but anyone has access, but we are at least logged in as the correct user. So the simplest way to do our logic is just a hard coded in the controller and it's really simple. If Article Arrow get author does not equal this Arrow get user and 

so we're going to check to see if they shouldn't have access so they're not the author and they don't have the role admin article role we wanted deny access. Now if you want to just check true or false, if a user has a role, you can say, 

this Arrow is granted, I will pass that role admin article so they're not the author and they don't have the rural Edmond Article Role. Then we're going to throw this Arrow create not found, sorry. Create access denied exception. Not to say no access. We haven't seen this method yet because before we were using before we were using this Arrow, deny access and less granted which did the grant to check and throw the exception for us. So this is just a little low lower level code when you check is granted, get back true or false and then you deny access. By throwing this exception. This message here is just shown to developers. So for your fresh, we totally get access because we are the owner of that article, but this sucks. I don't want this logic and my controller. Why? Well, what if I need this logic somewhere else than I need to duplicate this or what if I need this inside of twig because I want to show whether or not we show an edit button for an article. It wouldn't really be a bummer to start having all of this logic inside of our template. Fortunately, there's a much. There's a wonderful system in symphony to handle this called the voter system. 

Here's how it works. I'm not clear this whole thing out and I'm going to do something really strange. I'm going to say, if not, this Arrow is granted, so I'm using the same functions before, but instead of passing a role, I'm just going to invent a string here, manage and then he didn't know he could do this on a past. The article has the second argument. We'll try this right now. We actually get no access. Let me explain what's happening. Whenever you call is granted or denied access and less granted, those all, all of those methods ultimately do the same thing. It calls, it executes what's called symphonies voter system. Basically it takes the string, the string manage here or or more use to role admin article and it asks each voter, do you know how to decide whether or not the current user has role admin article? Now, in reality, in the core of symphony, there are only two voters by default. One voters called roll voter, and if you pass anything that starts with role underscore the role voter says, ah, yes, I know how to determine whether the user has that role or not, 

and of course it just uses the roles and the user and it returns true or false based on whether or not that user has that role. The other voter, the only other vote of that's in the system by default is another voter that responds to anything that starts with is authenticated. So when we say when we use is authenticated, fully, the other voters says, oh, I know how to respond to that and it returns true or false based on whichever one of these strings we passed in there. 

The really cool thing is we can add our own accustomed voters right now and we call it, is grants with manage an article. Both of those voters say, we don't understand what this is, so they both don't vote, and when nobody votes, you get access denied by default. So all we need to do is introduce a new voter that understands how to handle the string manage and an article object. By the way, I'm using the word manage here, I just made that up. If you need the different permissions for edit and show and delete, you can make different ones for all of these edit, show, delete, and you could make your voter able to handle all of those. You'll see what I mean in a second. So to create a voter where you want to cheat and run bin Console, make voter will call one, call the article voter. I usually have one voter per object that I need to decide access for it. All right, let's go check out that new class 

source security voter article voter. Alright, cool. So there's only two methods inside of here. Here's how it works. Whenever anybody in the system call calls the security system, the supports method will be called. It's our job to decide whether or not this voter knows how to vote. In this particular situation. The attribute here is going to be the string passed and these subject here is going to be the second argument that's passed. If there is anything up until now, we haven't been passing anything for that second argument. So the example here is actually a pretty good. We're going to say that we understand how to handle things if the attribute is managed and if the subject is an instance of article. If those two things are true, we know how to work. If return false from supports, nothing happens. Our article, our voter doesn't vote in some other voter handles it, but if we return true, then symphony calls. 

Our vote on attribute method in our job here is very simple to return true if the users should have access and to return false otherwise passes us the same attributes during the subject and also the token, which is a little lower level here, but you can see the token is actually used to get access to the user object. So first I'm going to cheat a little bit on the very top of this. I'm going to add at Var subject and I'm going to say that the subject is an article I'm doing here is because we have our supports checkup here. We know that at this point subject will definitely be an article objects, so I'm just adding a little bit of documentation here for php storm so that it knows that 

right down here it's very common to have a vote or handle multiple conditions. We don't need that right now, but I'll stick with the switch case statement and of course our only case is manage. All right, so the first thing I want to do is figure out if the. If this current user is the author of the article, we should definitely have access. We'll say if subject, that's the article, Arrow get author equals equals the youth or user object, so the currently logged in user object, then return true. This is the author. Alright. The other case we want to check is whether or not the user has a role article admin role admin article. Now the problem is that in we know how to check if somebody has a role in a controller, we can choose this is granted thing and he goes back into the voter system, but how can we check that from inside of a voter? 

Yeah, 

or some other service. The answer is with the security service, which we actually saw earlier, had a constructor 

with a new security argument. The one from the symphony components, I'll hit enter to initialize to create that property and set it. You remember when you used the security service earlier in markdown helper, you can see all the way over here. It's our last argument and we used it because it gives us access to the current user object. Well, actually there's one other thing that the security class can do hold command or control, click into it. It has good user on it, but it also has in his grandson method on it. The security class service is the key to get into user or checking if the user has access. That's actually what the is granted method in the controller uses behind the scenes. So anyway, down here it's very simple. Now we can just say if this Arrow Security Arrow is granted role admin article, then return true and down here instead of the break, I'm actually, I'm returned false. Those two conditions aren't met. We definitely do not have access. So let's try this. Move over, refresh, and we have access because we are logged in as the current user, our voter gets hit, life is good and if you want to comment out the author check real quick and refresh, you'll see we get access denied. That's awesome. 

Now one last little thing I'm going to show when we point out is that in our article admin controller, we have this. We can actually shorten this instead of the whole if statement. We can use the same, this arrow deny access to less granted that we used earlier, past that manage pass it the article object and we're good. That's going to do the exact same check as before. Refresh, access granted, but wait, we can get even fancier everywhere else. So far we've been using the annotation. The only problem is now that we need to pass this in object and actually we can do this with annotations at is granted. We'll pass it the manage key and then if you need a pass, the second argument too is granted, you can do that by saying subject equals article. Now, the reason this works when you say subject equals article, article can be um, any argument that you have, your controller can be in a, a subject up here. So this will be the equal 70. We'll pass that argument to it. So now we can get rid of everything, go back, refresh, 

access granted. And just because nothing should work on the first, try a comment on my author check again. And yes, we get access denied by controller annotation. That is sweet. Alright guys, that's it. I mean, we have killed on this. We have a great authentication system which allows for login form authentication, API authentication. We have a rich dynamic roles system. We have a voter system so we can do access controls. Oh, I love security. I hope you guys are feeling super empowered to make your simple, complex, whatever crazy authentication system you have. As always, if you have questions, um, we're having to talk down in the comments section. All right guys, go out and build something amazing. See you guys next time.