# Autocomplete Js

Coming soon...

This custom field and data transformer is cool because this field now works exactly how I want it to, except it would be even cooler if I had some awesome little javascript autocomplete here because I really can't tell like who the actual valid users are, 

so it's a little bit difficult for me to use this, so let's do that. Google for it. Algolia autocomplete. There are lots of autocomplete libraries, but Algolia has a nice little javascript library. I'll click into their documentation, but what I really want is their little autocomplete, that j s thing. Now, many of you might know that a symphony comes with a really great a javascript library called Webpack encore to help you build a really, really a professional, beautiful javascript. We're not using that in this tutorial yet. So I'm going to do things the very. I'm going to do things. I'm going to keep things very simple. Uh, but the important part here is how we can add javascript to our custom fields. So in this case, I'm going to copy the script tag forj query and then open your templates article Admin, edit that html dot twig in override the block javascripts at the end block, then call the parent function so that we don't override the parent blocks. And then we'll we'll paste in that script tag. Yes, we are also, we're also going to need to do this on the new template. We'll take care of that in a little bit. Second, if you scroll down a little bit of eventually there it is. There is some css that actually helps make this all look good. Let's copy that. Then I'll open the public directory. There it is, and in css I'll create a new file called Algolia 

autocomplete that css paste that in there, close that up, and that will override the block called style sheets. And Block. This time we'll add a link tag so you that Algolia autocomplete that css file and Petri storm doesn't look happy. I think it's just. There we go. It just got confused and finally to actually implement the logic we want in the js directory, I'm also going to create a new file call l go the a dash autocomplete dot js. Before I fill anything in here, I'll also go up here and create a script tag for that source equals Jay asked Algolia auto play dot js. All right, so if you go back and look at their documentation, I basically talks about how to use this with jquery. You basically need to select an element and then there's some code that you can put here to tell it where to go and get the code from. 

So I'll actually copy. No, I'm not going to copy into that. So we're going to basically do that same thing by hand here. I'll start just to be safe with a document that ready block from jquery to make sure the page is fully loaded. And then we're going to do is I'm going to select all elements that have some gas dash users, dash autocomplete class. Nothing has this yet, but our field will soon. Then we call auto complete on it. We'll pass it that same hint, false. Then it's a little complex. We need to pass it in Ra and then an object, and then we need a source option set to a function that receives a query which is the value in the field and then a call back. So basically as we're typing in the field, the library is going to call our source function. It's going to be our job to figure out what results to pass back and the past back. We're actually going to call execute this callback function and pass it our array of options, which right now I'm just going to hard code. I'm to create this little data structure with a value key because that's how the library and likes the values to be constructed and bar 

and that's it. 

Now, in order for this to be a to be applied to our field, all we need to do is add that class to our aba field, so let's just do that all the time. Automatically a copy of this class here, that end user select text type. We can actually set in default value for the att our option and say class equals j. s user audit complete up until now if we've wanted to add a class attribute, we've actually been doing that from inside of our tweet template. For example, security 

registered at html twig, we're passing a V, a variable called a dtr, and then we can pass a class there or a variable called her with a placeholder. Atr is one of the few things that are both can be past either as view variables or also as form options, but these are generally two different things and I want to make sure we don't get them confused, so if I go back and open my profiler and I click on, for example the author field, remember that there are a number of options that you can pass to your field and these are the things that you would pass in your form class and then when you're rendering your template, there are a bunch of view variables. These are two different lists. They just happen to have a little bit of overlap like a ttr, which exists as an option and if you pass that, that becomes the default value for your, for your view variable. Anyways, inside of our users like textiles, we now are giving it a default a class, so with any luck that should work. I'll close the profiler refresh 

and Oh, I killed my page. CSS has gone. I always do that and edit that each month to make sure you call the parent function in your style sheet spot or else you lose all of the other style sheets. All right? Much better. And now when we type into our field, no matter what we type, we always get the food and the bar options because we have this hard coded in. So the next thing we need to do is create an end point in Ajax end point that's going to be able to return us the list of user objects so that we're not hard coating them. To do that. Let's create a new controller for this. Doesn't matter how you organize this, but I'm going to create an admin utility controller. I'll make that extend the normal abstract controller 

and then I'm going to create a public function, get user's API, so we're gonna Credit Api end points, and above this I'll give it the APP route, the one from the routing components, and then slash admin slash utility slash users, and just to be extra fancy, I'll say methods equals get. This is only a good end point right inside of this, we're basically just gonna return the user objects. We're not even going to worry about filtering them yet, so I'll say user repository, user repository, then users equals user repository, Arrow, and let's use our find that all email alphabetical though it doesn't matter. And down below I'll return this arrow, Jason. Oh, return this on user's key and that's it. Let's copy that. You were on seat. This is actually working. It's all credit. New Tab here. We'll go to local host, 8,000 slash admin slash utility slash users. And Whoa, a circular reference has been detected. Oh, so this means that when it was trying to see, realize the user object, it's somehow got into a circular reference. Check this out, open up your user entity class. By default, the serializer is going to see realize every single a property you have on it or more accurately every single property that has a guitar method. 

This means that it is serializing our API tokens, for example. Well, I want to serialize the API token. Api token has a reference back to the users, so it serializes the user and it kind of goes on forever until it gets deep enough that it's notices that it's in a loop and then it throws an exception. Well, the thing is we don't really want to serialize all of those fields anyways. We just want to serialize a couple of basic fields and we already did this earlier. 

In account controller. We created an API end point that return one user object and when we did that, the key was that we told the serializer to only serialize the groups called main look in your user entity class. We didn't materialize everything. We just added an act groups and main above all the fields that we want it to serialize. So we just need to do the same thing here instead of our admin utility controller. Second argument is the status code. Who wants 200? We don't need any custom headers, but we do need to pass a groups option set to Maine. I know a lot of square brackets there. Now to go back and refresh. Got It's. There is a nice usable list. We can use a different serialization group here if we wanted to. To return even less data are the last thing you need to do is make sure that this is secure because right now this controller is open to the world and we might not want everybody to be able to list all the users. So this is a little bit tricky because our article admin controller requires role admin article. Where did the user object? Ignore that. 

So next, let's hook up the end points.