# Build View

Coming soon...

Our autocomplete thing works nice on you had a page, uh, but it actually doesn't work at all on the article. New Page. So if I go to slash admin slash article and click creates, there is nothing here. Okay. It looks like it's working, but that's actually just the normal autocomplete coming from my browser, not actually my magic. And there's no Java script error. It's just that 

we haven't added the javascript for this page. So we have the class on there, we have the data complete, but remembering edit that age Montsweag, that's where we included the javascript and the style sheets that uh, that rented us. So unfortunately there's no like really clean way to automatically include some javascript or css on your page when you are using a specific field, but something that you need to think about. So we need to actually copy all of this javascript and css stuff and then down in our templates, article Admin, Judah Ace last week, we need to make sure that that stuff is actually there. And like I mentioned earlier, we're in a little while. We're actually going to change this so that the author field is only filled in on create and then it's going to be disabled on edit. So once you set the author, it's going to be set for good. So we actually, we don't really need any of this stuff on the edit page. I'm actually going to delete it now if you do need it, some css and javascript on both your edit template and your new template and you don't like that duplication, I don't think it's a huge deal, but if you want to, you could create a new base layout, a new layout file called like 

article admin based at eight months wig. It would extend content base, but it would override a, that's where you could add override those, uh, of those blocks, those blocks. Then your children template would extend this new template that you're just using a for your article Admin area. So there is a way to remove that duplication if it bothers you. But now that we've moved the CSS and the gas over 

Nice, now we get our proper out of completion. Cool. So there's one other cool thing I want to show you and it's sort of a minor problem that we have right now. Close a few of these templates will closed a few of these files and go into my user select type. Right now the whole system works because we are setting a default att our option and we're sitting in the class and data autocomplete you were attributes. Open up your article form type where we use this. One of the things that we're allowed to do is we're allowed to set override that a ttr theory. If we wanted to promise if we did that, this att, our option would completely replace this 80th year option here. And we would lose all of these special aid ctr things. Not the biggest deal ever, but we can do things in a little bit of a better way. Uh, go to the bottom of your users. Select text type, go to the code, generate menu or command n on a Mac Pitt override methods in select build view. Notice there's also a method called finished view. The purpose of that is almost identical to build view. Alright, so here's the deal, whenever symphony renders your form, 

it creates a bunch of variables that are used to render that to Brenda, that field. We already know this in registered at each month Twig, we were actually overriding these atcr variables and in our form theme template, we were actually using a different variables inside of here. Another way to look at this is once again on your profiler for your form. Every field has a bunch of view variables that power everything about how that field is render someone symphony 

in order to get those variables. Symphony calls the build view method on every single one of your fields, and that's our opportunity to add or change whenever variables we want. We do that with this view variable, which is kind of a strange variable. So check this out. Actr equals view aero bars a ttr. So this view object has a public virus property which is a little bit strange and everything on that vars property is eventually going to become a variable that's available in your template. So if you want to change the atr variable, you do it by changing that key on that property. So here, let's now say class equals, we'll do a little is set, we'll check to see if there already is a class a view variable, 

um, 

because if maybe somebody set the atd option, which becomes this view variable, I need to explain that, then we'll use a ttr class, but we'll add a little space on the end of it or else we'll just set it to an empty string. And then we'll set the class two js user autocomplete, same class I've had been using above. Then I'll set this back onto the array. And then we also want to do the data audit complete url. So actually copy that from above. Will say a ttr that an auto complete url, and then I'll clean that up, turn that into an equals a semicolon on the end. Perfect. And finally, we'll set this many to set this back on the, uh, the view objects that will save you bars. Atr equals a ttr. So previously, by setting the atts option internally, symphony always converge that into an att are variable. Now we don't need to set the option, we're just going to make sure that regardless of whether or not the user set the eighth year option, we're going to properly make sure that the stuff that we need on it is set as view variables. So with any luck, 

we should be able to go over refresh and yes, everything still works perfectly because all of the same class and auto you were out, things are being added on there properly. And if you open the profiler for our form, we can actually see this. It's kind of cool if you click on author and go down to view variables, you're going to see that the aptr variable actually has these values. So these are what's being used and are vendors that. All right next, let's do something else.