# Choice Type Fields

Coming soon...

Okay, we're going to tackle one of the most annoying things in symphonies farm system and I. my hope is that we can make it painless so that it works really well. Log in as an Admin admin too@thespace.com, password engage, 

and then manually head over to the slash admin slash article page. Here's the goal on this form, I want to create two new dropdowns, a location dropdown so you can choose where and the galaxy you are, but then for some of those drop downs for when you select one of those choices, a second dropdown will appear and the options in that second dropdown and will be different based on the first dropdown if somebody called dependent foreign fields and it's actually pretty tricky to do so. We are going to tackle that. First. Let's add, let's add the first new field. Find a terminal and run bin Console. Make entity. Let's modify the article entity and create a new field called location. It's just gonna be a simple string field and I'm going to make it. Yes, no one on the database. So this new location is optional and let's just add that one field for now. Next run bin Console, make corn migration and then opener migrations directory and check out that new migration file. Yep. No surprises. Looks perfect. Soon. Moved back on run bin Console doctrine migrations. Migrate. 

Perfect. 

Open up are formed of class. For this article form type. Let's add this new field. So I'll say ad it's going to be called location and we're going to make. We're going to use the choice type to make this a dropdown. To use the dressed up, we just need to add a choices option. In here. I'm mad just three choices. The solar system that to solar underscore system 

near a star set to star and inter stellar space set to inter stellar underscore space. We haven't used the choice type directly yet, but you only when you use the choice type, the key in the choices is what's actually going to be displayed and the value over here is actually what's going to be set onto our entities. So this will be the field, the value that you're actually going to see in the database. So when we say this at the bottom, I also want to put required false and the reason for that is this controls the html five required attribute and unfortunately as soon as we add the add the field type here form field type guessing stops and so it normally would guess the required as you correctly by looking at the doctrine metadata, but it's going to not, it's not going to guess that property at all and it's going to defaults required. True. So basically I don't want the html five required attribute in this case, so I have to say required false. Alright? So if we go back now and refresh it will work, but in a bit of a surprising way, location is shows up all the way in the bottom of the form. That's strange. The reason 

is that we forgot to render it. Open templates, article admin underscore form that age throughout twig. You can see we're not rendering that field yet and when you forget to render a field form end actually renders it for you. It's actually kind of a nice reminder that you forgot it. Course. We don't want it to render all the way at the bottom like that. So instead, let's render form underscore, row, article, form, dot location. And the other thing is, is that I want to control the, um, a place holder value there. So that's also before we try this, add a placeholder of choose a location. 

Cool. So for refresh, it looks nice, Newfield, placeholder, and if we tried that, that would save. Okay. So let's add the second field that we want here. So the idea is that if we choose the solar system or a star, I want a second dropdown to be shown that lists all of the planets. If you chose solar system and if you chose to start with some of the most popular star systems that they're in, and we're going to store that on his second field. So in your terminal, go back to Vinh Council, make colon entity once again to update the article on. And this time we're gonna create a new field called specific location, that name that would, that would store, for example, like the planet earth or Mars will make this knob on the database again. So that it's optional and we'll just add that one field. Of course we'll run, make migration. Then pretty confident 

that that won't contain anything, anything extra. So we'll execute that migration. Perfect. 

And then we'll run over here when a copy of that location 

at field called specific location name for the place to say where exactly and for the choices, oh, this is where things get interesting. I'm just going to put a to do for now. Then in our form template, let's render this right below foreign location. We'll say form specific location name. Now if you refresh this, no surprise, it's going to work. Here's our location and here's our specific location name, but this is not how we want this to work. If solar system is selected, I want this to contain a list of planets. If near stars selected, this should be a different list of stars and if interstellar space is selected, I don't want this field to be in the form at all, was going to be any drop down and there's not supposed to be any specific location. Name. The way to solve this as a combination of a form, events and Javascript, let's jump into the forum events part next, that this field is dynamically added to our form based on the submitted data.