# Custom Field Theme

Coming soon...

The last thing we need to do is fix this, agree to terms box. It doesn't look that bad, but you know this markup is not the market that we had before, so let's fix this to do this. This is actually interesting. We basically want to override override how they form row is rendering, but just for this one field and we can actually do that. Go back and open the web debug toolbar for the form system. 

Then click on the agreed terms box and go down to the view variables. Few minutes ago we looked at this block prefixes. Remember what happens is if you, whenever you render each, when you render each part of the form, it's going to look for a block that starts first with user registration form agreed terms like user registration form agreed terms, underscore rope. If it doesn't find that, which of course it doesn't, it then looks for a checkbox underscore row, and if it doesn't find that it uses form underscore route, which is what's happening in this case, and so ultimately it is of course using the same block form row as everybody else. But if we want to customize just hubby row of this one field is done, we'll copy that long block name and will override block underscore, user underscore registration underscore form underscore agreed terms, underscore row and will say end block. And inside here I'm just going to literally copy and paste the old field. 

Boom. 

It's not perfect yet, but when I go back, find my terminal, find my main tab and refresh. Oh again, an error at temple that extends another one. CanNot include content outside of toy blocks because I put, pasted that in the wrong spot and paste that in the right spot. Come back, refresh. And yeah, so you can see it moved over just a little bit 

and is using our new kind of simpler checkbox MP3 label setup. So the cool thing is is that yeah, this, this is nice, but you know, if there's a validation error, it's not going to show up. We're just rendering everything manually. So what you want to do is you want to make sure that you take advantage of as many of these variables as you need to in order to make this really rendered the way you want to. So first thing I'm gonna do is I am going inside of here, we're gonna call form underscore airs form to make sure that my validation errors show up. I can also call form underscore health forum if I wanted to, but since I'm not adding any help text this field, I don't need to. Second thing is this name equals underscore terms that actually is a problem because the form is expecting to be called a certain way and if it's not called, it has a different name. It's not going to process correctly. Fortunately, one of the variables we have access to his full name, so we going to say curly curly, full name and that's it. Yes, we can get fancier. We can use the ID attribute if we want to set the ID properly, if we care, it's all up to how far you want to do things. 

You can look through this and get as fancy as you want to. You can also use the air is variable here to check to see if the ehrs are not empty and you could, for example, add a special errors class up here. Something like errors is not empty. Then we print some special class. That's up to you. Point is get as fancy as you need to for your actual situation. It's now recover. Refresh this. It looks good and it's also going to play nice with our system because it has the proper input type.