# Custom Field Type

Coming soon...

Go back to these slash admin slash articles section and go to create a new article. Oh, of course. Since we just registered, you're not logged in as the right person anymore. No problem. That's log out and log back in and log in with Admin to at the space. A password engage. Cool. Try that again. Back to slash admin slash article slash new. Alright cool. So I want to talk more about some low level important details about these fields themselves. So if you open up our article form type right now we're using the text type. This is the text area type, this is using a date time type and this is using the entity type. And the purpose of the field types is really two things. One, it translates into how the field renders. This is input type equals text. Second isn't is a text area, the third is an input type equals datetime local and of course the entity type. The dropdown here is a select element. So of course the first and most obvious purpose of our field types is that's how they render. But the second purpose and perhaps even more important, is that the field types determine how the data is processed. 

For example, this published at field in my browser, it looks fancy and it has some nice little date widgets, but ultimately this is just an input field, meaning that data is submitted as raw text, but ultimately on my article entity, my son published at method requires a date time object. That's actually the job of the date time type, which it says no here, but we know from daytime, 

we know from checking our profiler that published that is using the date time type. The real purpose of these types is that they transform data on submit a. They take that text format and they transform it into a date time object, and even more than that, it also transforms the other direction. If we edit an existing article, it takes the date time object that exists on our article and city and it transforms that back into the string format that's needed on the page. See, there's actually the raw string format that's ultimately rendered. This process is called the data transformer 

and a lot of times you need to do something special with the field. It's not that you needed to necessarily render different, it's that you need some data to be transformed in a different way. So here's my goal right now, we have this author dropdown box. This eventually is going to be a problem because if we have 10,000 users, it's not gonna be very easy for us to find them when you want. Plus querying for 10,000 users and running on the page is going to make this page really slow, so instead I want to convert this into a text field where I can type the email address of the user end of the text field and then submit, but of course to do that, we're going to need a data transformer that's able to take that email address inquiry for the user object because ultimately when these author, 

okay, 

because ultimately when set author, it's called on our article, it needs to be a user object, so we're going to do this by creating a custom form field. 

Okay. 

I wouldn't do this really cool. It looks almost identical to our forms. We're going to credit new class, let's call it users, select text type. It's going to extend that same abstract type that we've been extending in our other foreign classes. Then go to the code, generate menu or command and on a Mac and hit override methods and we have the same so and then, but this time override, get parents to start and from inside here, return texts type colon, colon class. Internally. The form system has some inheritance in it and for some technical reasons the form system doesn't use real inheritance, so you might expect us to do it. Literally extent text type. It doesn't work that way, but that's how I want you to think of it. So by extending textile who basically say without doing anything else, I want this new field to basically be a text to type. And that's it. That's already basically set up. So if we go over to the article form type, I'm not going to remove all of this entity type stuff and say text type colon, colon, class. All right, so if we go over now and we refresh, 

it actually works, you can say print out the first name of the current author, but it only works bio luck when the form object tries to render, or the author is a user object to the form, tries to render a user object, and by chance our user object actually has a two string method so it renders the first name, but check this out when we submit big giant air expected argument of type user or no string given when that first name is submitted, there's no data transformer on it, so ultimately it calls set author and tries to pass us a string argument. So that's what we need to fix. Next, we need to take our nice new symbol, a custom form field, and add a data transformer to it to work our magic. We'll do that next.