# Custom Validator

Coming soon...

Unfortunately, you can't use the at unique entity validation constraint above a class that's not an entity, it's just a limitation that's not currently possible, so this means that there is no built in validation and strength that can help us out here and when you have, when, when, when you get in a situation, when there's no built in validation constraint, the next thing to try is the at assert slash callback. We use this in an article class. You create a public function, put that annotation of other function and during validation your function's called and you can do whatever you want. The only limitation is that we don't have access to any services in this situation because we're just innosight as simple entity class. So if you need access to services like you need to make a database query, then you need to create a custom validation constraint. Fortunately, it's super easy. Find your terminal and run bin Console, make it colon validator. Let's create a new validator called unique user. And notice this creates two classes, unique user and unique user validator. Go find those in your new validator directory. So first unique user is basically a configuration object, and we're actually going to use this annotation at unique user validation itself is actually handled by the unique user validator. 

It's going to be past the constraint object which will actually be our unique string object and we can read any data off of it in order to get our job done. So it's reading the message in order to add the validation error. And we have a message as a public property over here. 

So the first thing you need to do with your annotation, first we need to do is actually make sure your annotation class is configured. Now, annotation in general can be added either above the class or above the property, and actually you can also add them above methods. If you add your validation annotation above your class, then during validation, the value that's passed to you is the entire object. If you add it above a property, then the value of your past is just at that property. So if you need access to multiple fields on a class for validation, then you want to create a an annotation that can be used above the class. This situation, I'm going to delete my at unique entity and I'm going to put my new annotation above my email field. So at unique user am I hit tab actually adds that as a new use statement. So basically we're going to take whatever value is populated with this email and instead of our validator we're going to make we're gonna. Use that value to query the database to see if that's already a already found. But first when you do a little bit more work inside of our annotation class, hit shift, shift, and open the not blink core annotation. Notice it has an ad target annotation on top of it. This is something special to the annotation system. By adding at target, it tells, it tells the system where your annotation is allowed to be used. So let's copy that and paste that above ours. This says it's okay to be used above a property above a method or even inside of an annotation. That's an edge case, but we'll leave that. 

If you did want your annotations video to be used above in a class, I would follow the, uh, I would check out the unique entity constraint to follow it. Notice it hasn't at target of class. And then the other thing you need to do is override the targets. This tells the validation system that it's okay if this is applied to a class anyways. The last thing we need to change inside of our unique user is let's change this message and we'll have it be the same thing that we have above our user class. I think you already registered, paste that and that's it. If we need more configuration options, we can actually pass great more public properties on our unique user. And you can override any of these when you use your annotation and we're not doing it here, but I couldn't say message equals and uh, we can put whatever we wanted in order to customize that. Alright, so just to see if this is working, let's go over to our set parameter. Let's go over to val, a unique user validator and remove this set parameter part. That's a way of filling in a wildcard values. We don't need that and let's just make this always fail. 

Speak over an hour now and refresh to resubmit the form. Boom, we've got it. Look, I think you've already registered, which doesn't even make sense because we don't have anything filled in. All right, so to do that, we're going to need to make a query instead of our validator. Fortunately these validator classes, our services and so we can use normal dependency injection construct method on top will type end user repository, user repository. I'll hit alt entered to create that property and set it down here. We can say existing user equals 

this Arrow, user repository Arrow, find one by then we'll search for email set to whatever value is I don't remember because we have put this above our email property. The email is the value that's going to be passed to us automatically. None very simply, if not existing user, then we'll return. Very simple. Now, if we were using this on an edit form, we would also want to make sure that if we found an existing user, it's, we wouldn't want to throw an error if that was the same as this user. That would just mean that they haven't changed. In that case, you'd actually need the value to be the entire user object so you can look at the ID and so for that you would need to make this unique user something that you added to the class, not just the property. Alright, that's it. Back over and refresh and got it. We fill in a new user and I'll add the no validate so I can keep the other fields blank and hit register. Yep. The error goes away if we try. Will riker and summit the summit. The field for him? Yep. We get the air. So custom validation constraints, super powerful tool.