# Data Transformer

Coming soon...

Hey, we have a custom field type users, select text type two we're using for our author field. That's cool, except it's pretty much just a text type right now, thanks to to get parent, which means when you render it, it renders as a text field. Nothing fancy at all. Now the text field internally, it doesn't have any idea of a data transformer. It just takes whatever the value is on our object and tries to print it, so because this is attached to our author field on our article and our other field is a user object, the text field basically drives do you take our user object and just print it and it does thanks to our two string method, so that's why this actually renders. If we remove the two string method and refreshed, we'd actually get a huge error because it can't print our user object anymore and even more importantly, even if we put this back, our forum renders but our form doesn't actually submit yet. When we try to submit this, we get a huge error because it is taking that string input and form system is called is trying to pass that as an argument as the author to set author, which doesn't work, so we need a data transformer and the goal really is that one the field and renders I want it to render and print out the email of the user, not the first name, and when we submit 

we're going to transform the email back into the user object. So here's how we do this. Super Awesome in the form directory. Create a data transformer directory though the path of these things doesn't matter as usual. Then create a new email to user transformer data. Transformers need to implement a data transformer interface. Then I'll go to the code, generate menu or command in Omak. Go to implement methods and choose the two methods we need in transformers are really cool. Let's dd both of these methods just to see when these are called and what these values look like. So dd transform value and DD reverse transform value to make our users select type. Use this, go back to the code, generate menu or command and on a Mac, go to override methods and select build a form. Now you might remember build form 

because this is the method that we override in our normal form classes to actually add the fields. It turns out there are a couple other things you can do with this builder object. One of them is you can say builder, Arrow, ad model transformer, and then say new email to user transformer. As soon as we do that, when we see this field, we'll now use our transformer to see what that means. I'll hit enter on the url to refresh and rerender the form. As soon as we do that, boom, we hit the transform method in we're past the user object. This is awesome guys. That's the purpose of transform. This method is called. This method is called when the form is render, it takes the value that lives on your data. In our case, it's actually a user object that lives on the author field and our job is to transform that into a representation that can be used on the form. In other words, the email string, so check this out. First, let's check to see the value is no just to be safe, and if it is that of course you just render as an empty string. Then next I'm going to do a little bit of a sanity check here just to make sure that we're not doing something incorrect on accident. If he, if the value is not an instance of our user class, then somebody is using this transformer incorrectly, so we'll throw a new logic exception that says users select text type can only be used with user objects. 

And then finally at the bottom, so easy return value, which we now know is our user object. Arrow, get email. Alright, try that out, went back over, refresh and hello email address. That is the transformed method. All right, so let's do the reverse. When we actually submit this, we hit reverse transform and we are past the actual string data that was submitted. All we need to do is query for a user object that has that email address and we are good. That means that instead of reverse transform, we're going to need to do a database query. We need our user repository now, the one now, so we're going to do our normal dependency injection flow. I'll add a constructor method and we'll add user repository, user repository. I'll hit alt enter and select initialize fields to create that property and set. 

Now normally that's all we needed to do and down below we can use this immediately, but this object is actually not created by the symphonies container, so we don't get auto wiring magic here. What I literally mean is this object is being instantiated directly by us, so it is our responsibility to pass it whatever it needs. So we actually needed to do a little bit of an extra step here where in our field tech we actually need to add a constructor and do the exact same thing at a user repository argument and hit enter to initialize that field to initialize that field. Our form fields, our services. So symphony is going to install the containers. When it's tainted this object, it's going to pass us the user repository, so that does work down here. We just need to pass this Arrow user repository manually into our email to use transformer, so that's the only kind of tricky part you need to pass things to direct two steps. Alright, now in reverse transform, we do our job user equals this Arrow user repository, and we can use the find one by method to look for email set to value. Now, if there is not a user that was found, what we need to do is throw a noose transform transformation failed exception. This is actually a class as a use statement was already added above when we implemented the interface methods and in here I'll put a little message 

that says no user found with email percent s and then we'll pass the value. That message actually is not going to be shown to the end users. You'll see, you'll see how that's and talk more about what the user will see in a second. At the bottom returned to user transformation. Failed exception is important because that's actually going to signal a effectively basically a validation error, so check this out, let's go back. I'm going to refresh to resubmit that form and cool, it looks like it works. It probably save this to the database and then rerender it. So let me change this to space are three example that come and yes it looks like it's saved. That can even just hit submit to refresh this form directly from the database and yes, it's loading it. That is a beautiful data transformer. Now check this out. If we put something that doesn't exist, space bar 300 and example of that come we fail validation. This value is not valid. That's happening because our data transformation is failing. This transformation failed exception causes a validation error, not the validation errors that we're used to like when we add constraint messages like at a certain email and as her blank. This is what I call it, referred to early as sanity validation built into the form fields themselves. Sometimes a field can actually fail because it's being passed a ridiculous value. 

We actually showed this as an example back when we use the entity type and this was a user dropdown. If we hacked the options on that drop down and add a user that didn't exist and submitted. We got this sanity validation error message. So next, let's see how we can customize this, this error message and learn and do a couple of other fancy things to make our custom field and more flexible.