# Data Class

Coming soon...

Okay, so we have created our form type class, used it in our controller process, the form submit, and we even know how to render it. This is the basic stuff, but it's already doing a lot for us, but there's one thing that bothers me a little bit and that's in the controller when we call data equals form. Get data that gives us back in associative array with all the field data, with all the fields on it. That's super simple, but it did mean that we needed to do some manual work of creating and setting that data manually. I'm actually, we don't need to do that in article form type. There's one other method that we commonly override. Go to the code, generate menu or command in on a Mac, hit override methods and select configure options. Like with bill form, we don't need to call the parent method because it's empty inside here called resolver Arrow set to false pass it an array. This is the way place that you set options. On this form class, there aren't a lot of options and the main one is data underscore class, which we're going to set two article colon, colon class. What we're doing this binds that this form to our article class and two cool things are gonna happen. 

Okay? 

See what this does. Go into your controller and dumping dye that data variable. All right, now check this out. Watch closely notice the content, both fields right now or just text fields because we haven't configured them to be anything else. When we refresh. 

Whoa. The content is now a text area and this is something that we're going to talk about in a second, but obviously there are ways to configure what types of field, what type of input. Each field isn't a form. When you bind your form to a class form system use. It uses something called form type guessing basically because it notice that the content field on article is a longer text field. It figured that that should default to a text area. It's just kind of a cool feature. The real important thing will happen when we submit. Let's read another article called Orion's belt for fashion or function. Quit create and yes, check it out. It is an article and it has the title and the content set on it. This is the power of that data class option. When this is set on submit, the form system will create a new article object for us and then it will use the setter methods to populate the data. So for example, we have a title per title field and any content field on our form when we submit the form actually calls, set title and then set content. It's basically just a convenience for what we're already doing in our controller. This is awesome because we can now remove a lot of that duplicated data and instead say article equals form data and to give my an ide a little bit more help here, I'll give that some inland documentation that says that this is an article 

and that's it. Our controllers now even smaller and when we submit again, it submits perfectly. 

This is the way that we're going to use forms in general by binding them to a class. However, I want you to remember, if you ever have a very complex field, it's perfectly okay to not have a data class, get the associative array from your controller, and then just use that data manually. Also, while you commonly see your form types bound to an entity class. It doesn't need to be. This article can be any normal php class. So if you have a form that doesn't look very much like any of your entities, you could create a new model class that has the exact same properties as form. Submit that form, get back your model object and the controller and use its data to populate your other entity objects. Basically, this data class thing is here. Being able to bind your form to your entity is for convenience, but don't let it be something that slows you down. All right, while we're here and it's one less thing out to do, click on create. And now we have our two fields. It's kind of ugly. And um, and as we know so far, we're not really controlling any of them markup. We're just calling a few form rendering functions. And then all the markup and all the fields are being generated automatically 

behind the scenes. This is done with something called a form theme. All of the market being generated on your form comes from somewhere deep inside of symphony and he can actually customize that and if you're using bootstrap or maybe foundation, there is a built informed theme that you can use. Open config packages, twigged that Yammel and add a new key called form themes and pointed to a template called bootstrap underscore four, underscore layout dot html dot twig. This is actually a template that lives inside of the core of symphony. You can hit shift, shift, paste, and find it if you want to. In fact, we'll take a look at this class later when we talk a little bit more about form themes, but just by adding this one bit of config can move over. Refresh and yes, our form is now using bootstrap from the markup, which means it just looks good instantly. That's awesome. All right. Next, let's talk about customizing the form field types and form field options so we can make each field look and behave exactly like we want.