# Entity Type

Coming soon...

Alright, next, right now when we submit the form or setting the author to whoever's currently logged in in my application, I actually want the whoever creates the article to be able to select the author, so go to the. If you go back to the documentation, click back to the form field types. One of the most important options and all of symphony is the choice type, which actually is responsible for creating select elements, radio buttons, and check boxes all in one because if you think about it, those are all just different ways to choose things the way you and it's really simple. You basically just pass it eight choices option with the choices you want. Maybe yes, no, and you get a dropdown if you want to. If you don't want to drop down. If you want radio buttons or you want select boxes, you control those by the multiple and expanded options. So for example, if you said expanded to true, you'll get instead of a dropdown, you would get radio buttons. If you then also said multiple to true, this would turn it into checkboxes. So the APP is super powerful for creating dropdowns, but in this case of author, we actually have a special case because we want a dropdown, but one of the dropdown to be populated from a table in a database, when you have that situation, instead of the choice type you want to use the entity type 

you have to type is actually kind of a child of choice typing, see parent type choice type. So it basically has all the same options, but it makes it a little bit easy to query from the database. 

So first go to your article form type and let's add our author field and we're choosing the word author here because that is the name of the property on our, uh, entity class. And more importantly it's because we have a set author and a good author methods. Now, as soon as we do this, if you go over and refresh, boom, we have a dropdown. It's populated with all of the users from the database might look a little bit weird because by default it uses the two string method that we have on our user entity in order to figure out what display value to use, so the first name, if you don't have a two string method, you'd actually get an error and I'll show you in a second how we can control this and get rid of that air. 

Now we know behind the scenes that this is being guest as an entity type, so just to be a little bit more specific, I'm actually gonna pass entities have colon, colon class is the second argument because something interesting happens. Suddenly we get a huge error required. Option of class is missing, so check this out. When you use the entity type, here's one option that you have to pass it, which is class, which makes sense because this is the Insti class that you want to display. The cool thing about form field guessing from type guessing is that if you allow the type to be guest, then it also tries to guest certain options, but as soon as you pass the type, it stops passing the options, which means that we need to pass class, specifically user, colon, colon, class. As soon as we do that. Nice. It works just like a day before. I want to talk about a few other options on the entity type and actually a lot of these options, as I mentioned, a lot of these options on instinct type are the same with choice type. The first one is choice label. 

This is how you, if you're not happy with just using the two string method, this is how you can control exactly which field on your entity is used for the for the options, so let's say choice underscored label, and we can set this to email. That means that we're going to call, get email on our user objects, so want to refresh. Nice. It works perfectly. If you want to get fancier, you can also pass this a callback. It's gonna receive the object. The user object, and here you can return whatever you want, so we'll return a present d percent s and fill that in with user arrow. Get Id, user Arrow, get email. Now under your refresh, Nice. We get a very specific format. One option that's special to the entity type. One other option that the staff has that actually be choice type also has is placeholder. This is how you add that empty option on the top, which we'd want. It's a little weird that it auto selects the first one, so let's go back over and add placeholder sat. Two shoes, an author the back. Try that the highest. That works. Perfect. 

All right, well now that we have this setup, let's go back to our controller. Let's remove that. Set off their call in. Let's actually try this. Before I fill the center, I just want to point something out. If you look at the options, the value of each options, the idea that user and the database, so when we choose an author, this is the value that's actually going to be submitted to the server, the number. I want you to remember that. Oh, that's right. A very important article. Pluto. I didn't want to be a planet anyways. Anyway, we'll set the publish that just to today at any time or you can leave that blank. 

Thanks. 

And she's an author and we'll hit create. Yes. Space bar three at example, dot com and it is published. 

It's actually a more amazing than it seems and it's because of the data transformer. The intercept is cool because it makes it really easy to create a dropdown or check boxes based on some a entity in the database, but the really important part of it is the data transformer. The fact that when we submit an id like 17, it transforms it into the user object. That's important because when we submit a form system ultimately calls set author, so this needs to be a user object. The data transformer takes care of that for us. Now I want to do one last thing. 

Okay. 

If you go back to the create connect to create, a lot of times you might want to control. You might not want to show all of the rows from a database table where you might want to control how their order. You can totally do that needed to type. There are actually two ways. Normally when you use the entity type, you don't need to pass the choices option. Remember that if you look at the choice type, he choices option is how you actually specify which choices you want to show. In the dropdown. We don't have to pass the choices type because we pass the class and then it queries for the choices automatically to control how that query that query. There's an option called query builder, 

which you can use to create a custom query, but actually I'm going to do it a different way. I'm just going to say instead, I'm just going to override the choices option. We can do that. We can say, look, I can handle queries for the choices myself. To do that, instead of our form class we're going to need. We're going to need to query, so we're going to need the user repository. So let's. Fortunately, our services, our form types, our services, so we can use dependency injection like normal to create a constructor at an article repository argument. I'll hit alt enter, go to initialize fields to create that property and set it 

perfect. 

Then down below where choices set to this Arrow user repository. I did it again. We need the user repository user repository. I'll hit alt enter to initialize those fields to create that property and set it 

perfect. 

Then down below we'll just pass choices, this Arrow user repository, and I'll call a new method on it called find all email alphabetical copy that. Then we'll go over to our resource repository, open user repository, and we'll create that method. Say this air return, create careerbuilder, you for the alias order by you that email, sending get query, execute, and above. This will advertise this returns. We know this returns an array of user objects. Perfect. That makes our article form type happy. Now when we go back to our form and refresh, 

yes, so you can see it is reversed the order on those. I've got the admin first, so I just want to point out at this point it might look like we are using the entity type, but we're not really using any of the features after all. We are passing the choices in specifically so we could just use the choice type. Right? Well actually no. The one important thing to enterotype is still giving us is that data transformation. The idea that when we pass it an array of we it an array of user objects in it knows how to convert those into the label we want and then when we submit the ID it knows how to convert and make a query to convert that back into the user object. So we're still taking advantage of that. Was that man.