# Form Type Extension

Coming soon...

No, 

I'm going to talk about it. Crazy. Powerful feature in symphony is form system that allows you to modify any part of any field in any form across your entire system. As an example of this, we're going to talk about the text area 

feel. 

One of the properties of text areas in general is that you're allowed to have a rose option. You've reset rows equals 10. It gets longer. Okay, that's nice. So what if we decided, and of course that means that when we have a text area, feels like our content we right now could actually pass in a gtr option, set rose to some value. What if I wanted to do that automatically for every text area across my entire application? Is that possible? Absolutely. In your form directory, create a new directory called type thing, 

extension, 

and then inside there and your class called text area size extension, and make this implement form type extension 

interface. 

As the name implies, this allows you to extend existing form of types in the system or the code generate menu or command and in quite implement methods to implement all of the methods. And notice, look, these are the same exact methods that we've been implementing in our form and they're going to work pretty much the same way. Oh, except for extended type. In order for a symphony to know that this exists, we need to go into our config pack, our config services dot Yammel, and at the bottom we need to register, we need to give this a tag, so I'll put the name of the farm class or just app slash warm slash type extension slash text area size extension. That below I'm going to add tags. And the syntax here is a bit ugly when you the name a form, that type underscore extension. And then I'll say extended type. And here we're going to put the class name of the field that we want to extend. We want to extend the text area type, so I'll cheat real quick. And Edda, use David for text area type copy, that class name, delete that you statement and go and paste this right there. 

Oh, when I did my comma, now as soon as we do this, every time a text area type is created in the system, every single method on our text area size extension will be called, and it's as if each of these methods actually lives inside of the text area type. So if we put code inside of the build form, that's as if how open up the text area type class that says, if we're literally inside this class inside of a method called bill form, it puts us effectively inside of the class that we're modifying. Now, two important things. If you're using simply four point two, then you do not need to add this, any of this service dot yammel stuff, and simply four point two, this was improved, so this is all detected automatically. The way that symphony knows which type you want to extend in that case is actually something we need to do as well, is in getting extended type. When you return text area type colon, colon class. So before simply four point, do you still have to have it registered as a service? It's a little redundant because it's in two places, so that's been improved. Alright, let me remove the rest of the to do's here 

and then we will get to work and we don't need to implement all of these methods. We just need to add code to the ones that we actually need for whatever we're doing. So in our case, what we want to do is we want to add a new view variable. We want to modify the aptr view variable so that it has a rose field on us, so we can do that in build view. We can quite literally say views, view aero bars a ttr, and then set a rose attribute equal to 10 and that's it. Move over and refresh. It still looks big and I inspect it. Yes, rows equals 10. Every single text area on our site has been modified just like that. By the way, if you instead, if you want it to modify every single field on your system in some way, you can actually use a form of type colon, colon class because of Sydney has that inheritance system behind the scene. All types, all fields. Eventually extended form type colon comm class, so that's your way to where you could actually modify everything. 

Anyways, let's make this a little bit more flexible because right now we have hardcoded of 10, but what if I still want to be able to control this on a field by field basis? For example, in this case I'll pass, knows the type so it keeps guessing text area. What if I wanted to be able to say rose 15 inside of my forum class and override that right now if you refresh, you're going to get a huge error, undefined option that rose the option. Rose does not exist. You can't just invent new options here. There are only a set of valid options, but in text area size extension, you can invent new options. You can do it down here and configure options, so we'll say resolver Arrow set the faults and I'm now going to invent a new rose, 

a option, 

and given the default value of 10, now appear in bill view. Notice that almost all these method are passed the final options. We can just use that options rose and it's that simple. It will default to 10, but since we've overwritten it in this form, yeah, that looks really big on inspect element on the text area, rows equals 15, so this is the power of form type extensions in symphony actually uses these behind the scenes to do various things. For example, the CSRF token looked down the bottom of your field, of your form. Every single form somehow magically has a CSA, has an underscore token field attitude it. That whole thing is handled, but they formed hip extension type shifts shifts. You can look for CSF 

form 

for a CSRF extension and you'll actually, you'll find one of the tweak bridge, but you also find one there. It is the form of type CSF, our extension, it extends an abstract type extension, which actually it just implements form type extension and prevents you from needing to override everything so you can also extend abstract type extension if you want it to instead of implementing the interface directly. But the point is this is actually the spot that in built form actually does some magic. It uses an event, subscriber, a topic we talked about to ultimately add that a field into the view and then adds a bunch of options that you can configure to control the behavior. So this is still a little bit more advanced, but you can actually see a. These custom form type extension is actually control. A couple of things can the corpse and pay themselves.