# Form Theme Variables

Coming soon...

We just learned that whenever symphony renders any part of your form, it looks for a block in this core form div layout to the age smarts wake, for example, when it's rendering the row part of any field that looks for form underscore rope. We also learned this a little bit of a hierarchy to it, so when you're rendering the label for a text type, it first looks for texts underscored label, but then it looks for ultimately looks for form underscore label as a fall back because really all labels are the same. 

Heck, you can even look at the form underscore start tag. There's a block that defines how that looks inside of there. Now we use this information to create our own form of fim and register that hr where we told twig to now look inside of our template for blocks when it's rendering the registration form so it's not looking at outside of art, a template and finding form rope. Now when you're inside of these form theme blocks, you are in an entire different universe universe. You want to pretend like this block doesn't even exist in this template. It's an island, it gets past a completely different set of variables from the form system. This does not work like any of your other blocks in this template. And if you look inside of here, you can already see that there is apparently a help variable. There is apparently a form variable. So the first thing you need to figure out when you're inside of these boxes, what variables do I have access to? And the easiest way to do that is just to use the dump function inside of here. So if you go over now and refresh, 

yes, we get big giant dumps whenever it renders the rows for any of our fields. So you can see there's a ttr, there's the ID, that's the ID attribute that's used for the full name attribute. This might look familiar to some of you, some of you. These are the exact variables that we can use when we're rendering our field. So if I go back and look at article admin underscore formed that not a twig we had learned earlier that there is a variable called label. And the second argument is you form row is an array of variables. You can resolve this in the tweet template, function form, reference. If I search for form row inside of here. The second argument to it, and most of these functions is variables. So here the idea is whenever a field renders, there are a bunch of variables that are created in those variables are ultimately used inside of your form theme to render things. For example, you can see informed start, it's using a variable called method in order to render the method attribute on there that method variables, something that's created by the form system. Then in our templates, 

we can actually override those variables when we call our form rendering functions. So that's a very, very powerful thing to understand right there. Now when you're inside of a form theme, what you are doing is you are actually in an environment where all of those variables are passed to you. So that's why we have all these variables here for each individual field, which is great because it means that we can actually change those variables, use those variables, uh, do whatever we want with those. 

So check this out. If you go back to our register that age to Mount Twig, I'll remove the dump. One of the things in, in the old form is that our labels all had a class of Sr only. That's screen reader only because the labels were actually invisible by default. So we want our labels automatically do have that Sr dash only class on them. Now, of course, inform row we call form label and we just pass it the form object which represents the current form. If you go back to our form function reference and search for form underscore label, you'll see that the second argument is the actual label itself. And the third argument isn't a late array of variables. And guess what variable you have, there is a variable called label underscored a ttr. If we set that, we can control the attributes that are passed into our label variable. In fact, to make this more clear, if I go into form layout to small twig, search for form label to find the block that's used inside of here, you can see it using this label, att are variable. It's doing some complex processing on it, but ultimately it uses it down here a little bit complicated 

to pass in those variables. This is one of the things about these codes. They are super complicated, but it's using that down there anyways, back on register eight months, weeks since we're the ones calling form label directly, we can pass no as the second argument, which you remember is the label text, so we'll allow a label tech still to be auto use the normal value. 

Okay. 

Then we can pass a third argument here with label underscore a ttr and then another array of class set to Sr dash only. 

All right, so move back, go over refresh and yes you can see it. Those labels are gone. They now have this sr dash only a variable paths to them, whereas the only problem is that there is no actual text here on these fields. The way that was handled before is that each field had a placeholder attribute, so this is kind of the same thing before. This is actually the same thing. This is just an attribute that we want to set on each individual input, so we actually could go down to form widget here and we could change this widget a ttr to actually have a new, a ttr class on it, a key on it with a class that does something, but unfortunately we don't know what the label should be, so instead of doing it there, I'm going to go down and actually finally refracted my form widget into just three form render robocalls, so form row registration form, and then let me close a couple of files here and we have emailed plain password and agreed terms, so use that email. 

Okay. 

Plain Password and agree terms and for email will pass a second argument which is the variables ettr with placeholder set to email. And then the same thing down here for plain password. Is that a placeholder to password? And that shouldn't be it. Now notice we could have been less fancy about this and actually just passed this label a ttr variable directly down here and that would have worked fine. That would have passed down eventually into the label and it would have said it. So the form theme actually isn't completely necessary to get rid of this part. It's just a different way of doing it. All right, so we'll go back and refresh now. Yes, it pops those in except I have a typo on password, but other than that, things work great.