# Form Theme Basics

Coming soon...

The only real problem with their registration form now is it looks terrible. It does not look like our original registration form did, which was styled really nicely. This is one of the trickiest things about the form system is a styling it, uh, or theming it. The system is really powerful, but you need to be able to walk through it carefully. So let's do it step by step. Basically, we want to convert our new form into the market that we had before. So the first thing we noticed is that the form class itself had a class called form Simon watching Google for symphony form field, a form 

function reference. This is a page that we saw before we'd actually shows us all of the different functions that we can call to render our form like form start form end. And this is important because it's going to take, it's going to give us a clue as to how to customize each part of this. So for example, the second, the first argument to form view form start is called view. When you see the word view, what you're referring to is actually your form object. It's called a form view. It's not very important. The second argument is variables in almost every function on here has an argument called variables. We talked a little about this earlier. These are the pieces of. This is an array of information that you can pass in in order to modify how that piece of the form renders. For example, there is a variable called method that you can set to control the HD method attribute on the form. Well we want to do is actually set a custom attribute on the form 

which 

which yeah, we have this method, a variable here which ultimately becomes an attribute, but that doesn't work. Now, that doesn't work for most attributes to know what you can pass into this variable. 

You can go all the way down to the bottom of this page and this is not an exact guide, but it's going to give you lots of information about the different values that you can pass into here. The one of the most important ones is a ttr. That's something you can pass to set custom html attributes, so it's a long way of saying that we can pass the second argument here with a ttr set to itself, another array with class set to form dash. Sign it, and while I'm here, one of the things we lost was our h one, which is simple. We'll just pop that right on the beginning of the form. All right, so move over, go back, refresh and Ugh. Already so much better. I can once again see my agree to terms box. All right, so let's keep going about this to understand how to you notice that the original fields, they were just a label and an input. The input has a special class on it, but really there's nothing really special about the markup at all by default in the bootstrap form theme, everything has rendered instead of a forum group and then there's the label and the input. So we actually want to change how all of this market has rendered. In an order to do that, we need to understand a little bit about how symphony renders the markup in the first place. 

Now you may remember from earlier that in our config packages twig dot yammel file, we added this form theme line which pointed to a core template called bootstrap for layout dot html dot twig. Whenever symphony renders any part of your form, there was actually a twig template in core which contains the markup for that piece of your form, like the label or the widget, and we can override that hit shift shift to open bootstrap for layout. That eight small twig, so this one of the strangest twig templates you're ever going to see. It's actually just a bunch of blocks, block time widget, the widget percent widget file widget and many, many more. Here's how it works. There are basically five different parts for each field. There is the row and actually the roe contains the other four parts which are the widget label, ehrs and help based on your field type. Symphony goes specific opens this and which part of the form rendering symphony actually opens this template and find the exact part to render that part of the field. For example, if you're rendering a, let's see a. Our email here is a for the email field. Oh, I actually forgot. We can make this an email type colon, colon class that actually makes it render as input type equals email, 

which gives you a little bit more html five validation. Well, when we rented the password field, that's a password type. Wonder rendering the widget part of that symphony. It looks inside of this for password. When symphony of running an email, the widget part of the email, it looks for a, a blocking here called email underscore widget. 

Okay. 

If it doesn't find it in here, it actually looks at another template 

that's right next to this, so I'm going to click up here and open another one called form div layout dot html twig. This is actually symphonies default form theme, and even if you don't have it in your toy dot yammel file, this is always present, so simply look actually looks for all the blocks and bootstrap for layout and it also looks for the blocks and form div layout. The bootstrap one overrides this, so if you search here for email underscore widget, boom, this is the block that's responsible for rendering the widget part of the email field and you can also look for password underscore widget and that does the same thing, 

but actually there's also a bit of hierarchy behind this because check this out. What about the so what part? What is the name of the block when you're rendering the label part of the password? Well, you might think it's called Password underscore label and actually you would be right, but because the label looks the same for almost every field type, simply it has a little bit of a fall back in mechanism. Go back to your browser, click on the form icon on the web debug toolbar. Let's actually click on the plain password field and then down here, open up the view variables and you'll notice something called a block prefixes. This is actually when symphony is trying to render the widget for this particular field. It actually first looks for underscore, user underscore, registration underscore form underscore plain password underscore widget. 

That actually allows you to modify how the widget looks on a field by field basis. We'll actually talk about that a little bit. If it doesn't find that block than it actually looks for a password underscore widget if it doesn't find that than a text underscore widget. And then finally a form underscore widget, which would be a catchall. So this case there is a password underscore widget, but there's not a password underscore label, so it then looks for text underscore label. Let's look for that text underscore label. Nope. In finally it looks for form underscore label, so form underscore label, and this is actually what's used when we render the label for almost every field on the system. 

So to bring this all back inside registered at html Twig, when we call form widget registration form, that's just a shortcut for calling form row on all of the fields in our forum, which means we're rendering the row type the rope part of all of our fields and not surprisingly, the row looks exactly the same for all visits and field types. In other words, if you've got a bootstrap 400 square layout, that eight small twig search for a form underscore row, and eventually you'll find a block called form underscore wrote. This is the block that's responsible for rendering the former school route and you can see it just calls the label the widget and and the help. 

The reason you don't see the errors here is that the errors are actually rendered inside of the form label instead of bootstrap. So what we want to do is override the form row the way the form row renders just in this one template so that we can make it render simpler with Jay and not with a surrounding div around everything. So here's how we're going to do that. We're going to create a form theme, our very own form theme. Now you create form themes as a separate template and then you can actually use a form theme globally on every form if you want to, by adding that form theme into your tweet Dot Yammel, or you can form theme file by file. To do that. This is really nice. You can say colored risks, present form underscore theme, then the name of your variable registration form, and then underscore underscore self basically says, I want to use this template as a form theme for the registration form variable. 

Now as soon as you do that, when symphony renders, it's actually going to look for blocks inside of this template when it's rendering, so if we want to override the form row, we'd get a copy of this block and paste it into our template and actually I am going to do that, but instead of copying the bootstrap block, which actually is a little bit fancier than I even need, it, has this form group, I'm actually going to go and find the form underscore score, row blocking the parent template. Am I take a little bit of experimenting to see if you want the bootstrap one or if it's giving you too many features and then we'll paste that here and just to see if this is working. Let's remove the wrapping diff and just render all four parts of the form by themselves. All right, so go back refresh and oh, I saw something. Move it. Inspect element on it and yes it is using it. You can see the label in the input are just rendered out for every field. When symphony looks for the form underscore zero block. If first looks in our template and we are overriding it, alright, we need to do more work and we need to know, learn a lot more about how to code inside of these form theme blocks. So let's do that next.