# Form Dto

Coming soon...

Let's talk a little bit about the registration form. You remember the form class behind this is user registration form type and it's bound to our user class, which makes sense because that's ultimately what we want to create. But this was an interesting forum because it only has three fields in two of the field. Don't map back to anything on our user class. This plain password and this agreed terms, those properties don't exist on user and so we use a really nice trick called the mapped false, which allowed us to have these fields, um, and then in our controller, 

okay, 

we just needed to read them off in a different way. The user object wouldn't automatically be populated with them, but we could say form plain password, get data form or returns good day to get that data. Now this is a good example of a form that doesn't exactly look like our entity and when your form starts to look different than your entity class, or maybe it's a combination of several entity glasses, it might make more sense to not actually bind your class, your NC instead to create a model class that looks just like your form. So I'm going to try that out with our registration form. So in your form directory, I like to create a model directory inside there. Let's create a new class called user registration. Forum model is a class. It would be specifically for our form class. It doesn't need to extend anything. This is just for our own organization. Since our form has three fields, email, plain password and agreed terms. I'm going to create three public fields here, email, plain, password, agreed terms. Notice I'm making these public, which I never make public properties, but with these simple motto classes, it these masterclasses for forms. It just simple to do this if you want to. You can create private properties, make guitars and centers. That works just fine, but a lot of times using the public properties is just fine. This is just meant to temporarily hold our data. Alright, next in our user registration form type at the bottom. Instead of binding our class to it user class, we will bind it to our user registration form model 

and that's it. Now instead of setting the data on our user registration for model on our user, it will set it on the user registration form model, which means we can get rid of these mapped false because we do want the data to be mapped back onto that and our controller. The big difference is that this is not going to be a user object and more. This is now going to be a user and I'm going to updates the inline documentation above that so that that's obvious 

and so below we do need to do a little bit more work now. User equals new user, user Arrow, user arrow set email, user model, arrow, email, and then we'll do the same thing down below for the plain password instead of getting it off the form will say user model, aeroplane password and same thing down there for agreed terms. User model era, agreed terms. So the benefit of this is that I'm using this nice model object here. Instead of using specific array keys on my form and using mapped false. The downside is you need to do a little bit more work. We need to actually make sure that we transfer every field from I'm out of class, back to our user. And also if there, if we were doing the same thing in an edit form, we would actually need to create the model class up here by using the data from our entity and then pass that into the create form. So you need to do a little bit of work in two places. All right, so we aren't missing something. But let's actually see if this works. So I'll refresh just to be safe. Let's say with riker at the enterprise that org password engage, agree to the terms register and 

got it will recur at the enterprise that Org mission accomplished, right? Except for this one small thing which is that we have absolutely no registration, no validation on this form. Our validation, we're missing some validation. For example, the email field, we have some asserts on top of that. I want you to copy those because our form is not bound to our user registration for model. It's going to read the annotations off these properties and since we don't have any, there is not going to be any validation on the email field. Prove that I'll go to on spec element on my form. 

I add the no validate temporarily hit register and I do get my validation errors for password and agree to terms because those are. I built those onto the forum class themselves, but I don't get anything for the email field. So another advantage of having this forum model class intermodel class above email. I'm going to paste both of my existing annotations and I do need a use statement for this, so I'm just going to say at email and hit tab and delete that line because that adds the use statement I need on top. Now if you want to, you can remove these from your user class, but we might use the user class on a form somewhere else like an edit form, so I'm actually going to just keep those there. Now the real advantages, we can remove our constraints from our form and actually move these into our model class so for plain password we'll say at a certain point blank and at a certain length and we got a pass some options to each of those message equals choose a password and then for also copied the main message for the next field and we'll say equals five men message equals our existing message. Then when we're done here for agreed terms are forum type we had is true. A copy of that message. 

Same is true at assert his true message equals and I will paste 

nice. 

The cool thing is these can now be removed from our forum, which which is kind of Nice because it's not very common really to have foreign validation rules right inside your forum class like this Snafu over and refresh, oh well of course we get eight annotations, air close parentheses, plain password. Let's go fix that. A high, low, double 

quotation, 

go back, refresh again. 

Much better. We get all of the areas we expect. They're all just being read cleanly off of our model class. Now unfortunately there is one small problem that's special to this form. If you go back to your user and state is one more annotation that we are missing and it's the unique entity. This is what makes it prevents us from creating duplicate users. So let's copy unique entity. I'll go back into my user registration for model and above the class. We'll just paste this and of course we need to use statement for that. So I will read type the unique entity head tab and it says its own use statement. It's part of a different system than the other constraints. Now recover and refresh. 

We get 

a huge air, unable to find the object manager associated with an entity of class user registration for a model. It thinks that our model class is the entity, and unfortunately there's no way to make unique entity work above a class that's not an entity. It's not. This is not a common problem, but this is a problem that we hit in this case, so that's all right. We're gonna create, learn how to create a custom validation constraint so that we can apply the same logic onto our nice model class. We'll do that next.