# Form Type Class

Coming soon...

Hagen people, friends will come to our forms tutorial. 

Now you. The first question might ask is forms, do we even need forms on the Internet anymore? The answer is it depends. Honestly, a lot of apps have moved to a more single page application, heavy javascript format, but as many people have moved there, there are still just as number of people that are building very form heavy sites and there is no more powerful form system on the planet than symphony's form system because there are so many parts to a form. There is a rendering that form processing it's data validating in normalizing that data in other things you don't even think about like CSRF protection. So here's the deal with symphony's form component. It is incredibly powerful, so if you learn how to harness it, your going to be very productive at the same time. When it gets to a certain, a few complex topics, simply form system can be very hard. So we're going to learn how to do almost everything I can think of what the form and I'm going to tell you when and why to steer away from the form intake. Simpler paths. All right? As always, if you want to become a form master, you must code along with me. Download the course code from this page. When you unzip it, you'll find a start directory inside with these same files that you see here. Open up that read me.md file for instructions on how to get the site set up. The last step will be to 

find a terminal. Move it to the project and run bin Console server. Run to start the built in web server. Awesome. Move Back, head to local host colon 8,000. And welcome to our work in progress masterpiece. The space bar are real news intergalactic site. We're aliens everywhere. Can come and find out the latest news on the web. Thanks to our last tutorial, we can now log in with Adam and two at the space bar dot Com. Password engage. Alright, so here's the deal. If you go to slash admin slash article slash new, we get a 

big to do. You say we can display articles on our site, but we can't actually create or edit them yet. The code behind this as in source controller, article admin controller, and sure enough there is our big beautiful to do 

so it's time to get to work on this. The first step to creating a form is too great a form class, so one of our source directory. I'll create a form directory though, like normal, the location doesn't matter. And inside a php class called article form type form. Classes are usually called form types and the only rule is that they extend a class called abstract type. Oh, but of course they'll see we don't have that yet because we don't have the form system installed yet. So move over. Open a new terminal tab and run composer require form. Perfect. Now I want to move back. Once php storm is indexed, we can find our abstract type class perfect the way you use it. Uh, next, go to the code, generate menu or command in a Mac, click over on methods. And the one method you're always going to override his build form will mention a few of these other methods as well though they're are much less important and it's simple. Build your form, but using this builder object and the add method. So let's add two fields right now, title and content which are mirroring two fields that we have inside of our actual 

article class. And yeah, that's it. That's all we need to do for the form right now. Once you've created the form, you'll use it inside of your controller class by saying form equals and using a shortcut create form, and then you'll pass it the class that you want to create. Article Form Type Colon, colon class. I'll delete the return the response stuff instead, or return this Arrow render to render a temp twig template. How about article underscore admin slash new dot html dot twig, and we need to pass the form into twig template. Let's call the variable article form and then set it to. And this is a. This is tricky form Arrow, create view. You don't just pass the form, object directly into it, you pass it, create view. By the way, the form object is this object that knows everything about your form, including the fields and how to run them. 

To create the template. I'm going to cheat because I have the symphony plugin installed. I'll put my cursor into the template and hit alt enter and click create twig template and then hit enter again to confirm the location, but there's no magic going on. You're going to see that this is templates, article Admin, new dot html dot twig. You might remember from previous tutorials, we have a base dot html twig, but we also have a content based on age tomato, which gives us a little bit of markup and a content body block. Let's use that, so we'll say extends content based on each have to wait and then will override the content body and block. Put an h one launch, a new article 

with of course our rocket emerging, and then to run to the form we're going to use a few special form rendering functions, curly curly form under start, and we'll pass that article form at the end form underscore and article form that literally creates the form, start tagging any form end tag, which might seem silly, but there's actually a little bit of extra magic happening inside of there, which we'll talk about later to run to the actual fields. We can render all of them at once with form widget, article form, and then we need a submit button, so I'll say button type equals submit, and then we'll use our boot started classes at Btn, Btn Dash primary, and we'll say create, and that is it form class created in our controller. Render it inside of our template. Now when we move over and refresh, just like that, we have a functional form. Next, let's talk about processing that form submit, and then we're going to make it a whole lot fancier.