# Rendering Functions

Coming soon...

Right now, to render the form, we're just using a couple of very simple form functions, one that makes the start tag, one that makes the tag and one that renders everything else, so the problem is that we have almost zero control over how all of this stuff renders how the actual html markup looks like, which is a problem when you actually want to style this stuff more than just the normal bootstrap styling. Turns out that this is actually one of the parts in the symphony form system where things get tricky. So let's start to talk about how to properly theme our forms. Go to your other tab in Google for symphony form rendering functions to find a page that talks all about the functions that were already using inside of our. Instead of our template like form start form and and a few others that we'll talk about. So first form start. Yes, this just renders the form starts tag, which might seem kind of silly, but that's what it does. You can as the is the farm started. R, d does have a second argument with an array of variables that can be passed to it 

like method is that the method or an att are variable, which you can use to set any other attributes on the form star tag, most commonly the class, the form tag, 

well this one seems almost sillier because that's literally just the form closing tag, but actually has one super important super power in that is it renders any form fields that you may have forgotten to render. Now that might not make sense yet because this magic form widget function is rendering all of our fields, but in a second we're going to render our fields one by one and when we do that, if we've forgotten to render any of the fields form end will render those fields and then the closing form tag. Now, that may not seem like a good feature to you and it in many ways it's not. The real point of this is that form end will render any hidden fields automatically without you needing to do it. Most importantly, symphonies CSRF token. So I'll do inspect element again at the bottom of the forum, you'll see without us doing anything, we have a hidden input tag, which is the CSRF token. When we submit that symphony automatically validates it. So basically, without doing anything, all of our forms are protected by by a CSRF attacks. All right, so as far as the fields themselves, the flexible way to run to them is form widget. 

The next most if we're going to go, if you want just a little bit more control instead of form widget, you can call form underscore, row and then render each individual field like article form that title. I'll copy that and I'll paste it three more times. Let's run. There are three other fields as well, so that's gonna be content published and author, 

so content published at 

an author. Before we talk about that move over, refresh and got it. It looks exactly the same. So the form, which I thing we had before, it's just a shortcut for calling former row on each of your functions and form row is itself is something that is capable of basically adding eight div around the field. Then rendering the label, the widget itself, the help text, if there is any, and also the validation error so it takes care of all of that, so this gives us a little bit more control, but we still don't really have any control inside of there, but sometimes this is enough. Now if you go and look at the form row function, here we go. You'll notice that almost all of these functions have something called an argument called variables. These variables are explained a little bit at the bottom here where it talks about a number of different variables that you can pass in for most fields, including a label, so if you want to customize the label, we can now do that by adding a second argument form row in St, label 

article, title, some move over, refresh, 

and boom article title changed. Now, the best way to. There's lots of different things you can pass as form variables and it's actually the list is actually a little bit different based on the field type. The best way to see what you can pass there honestly, is to click back into the web debug toolbar for your form. 

Click on the field you want to customize like title and down here, I'll collapse the option stuff in addition to the options, which remember are the options that you're passing as the third argument in your form class. There's also a section called view variables. These are a bunch of variables that you're fueled, prepares and are used when rendering the field and it gives you control over it pretty much every part of the rendering process. So for example, you can see the label for this field. Notice it's no, which basically means that it's no when we render our, our field and then we're overriding it so you won't see your overwritten, uh, variables show up in here, but they are working. Then you can see the health message and a whole bunch of other things that help the form do its job, like the full name. That'll be the name attribute. And even the ID. By the way, if it's useful, you can actually access these directly in your template. I don't need to hear, but you could for example, um, print article form that title that Vars, that Id 

and if you go back and look at your article, that'll actually print out the id of that element which occasionally can be useful so you can override any of those variables or even access them here and use them. Alright, so form road gets us a little bit more flexibility, but if you want even more flexibility, there are a few ways to do it, but one of them is to render all the fields of your form independently. So I'm gonna get rid of the form road instead. I'm going to render all those parts individually. So I'm going to render form label, article, form, dot title, and in this case the second argument form a form label is actually the label. Then form errors, article form that title, any validation errors we have form widget, article form that title, that's the actual form field itself, and form help, article form dot title. Those are the four things that the row renders internal life, but now go back and refresh. You noticed that looks basically the same though. If you kind of look a little bit more closely, you'll notice that all the other fields are wrapped in this forum group in this no longer is so when you do go, when you render things at this level, it's possible that you're going to start losing out on some special formatting that the form row gives you. 

Another example is if I add the no validates attribute to the form and it enter, no, I don't want to do that, nevermind. So for that reason I'm actually going to go back to my form row and instead a little bit later, I'm going to teach you a way that you can use form row, but customize how form row looks on this page only or even a across your entire site using something called a form theme. That's kind of the best of both worlds because you can use the lazy way of doing things here, but still have a little bit more control over how they look.