# Update Form

Coming soon...

Okay, 

we know all about what it looks like to create a new article form, create the form process. The form request saved the article, but what does it look like to make an edit form answer delightfully is almost identical. In fact, let's copy our. All of our code from our new action will go down to our edit action where the only thing we're doing so far is allowing symphony to query for our article. Excellent. Now I'll type in the missing arguments. We need the request and also we need the entity manager interface eem. Okay, so now this is now exactly the same controller that we had before. So how do you make this an edit form? Very simple. Just pass article is the second argument to create for them. That's it. When you pass articles, the second argument and when symphony renders the form, it will call the gitter methods on that article in order to fill in the form. In fact, we can already try this. It's using the new template, but that should be fine. So when article slash one slash edits, I don't know if you don't have an id with article that [inaudible] let's go over here and run bin Console doctrine query sql, select star from article and perfect will use an ID 26 

there. It is a completely filled in form. The other cool thing is when you submit it calls the setter methods on that same article object. So we can still say article equals form. Get data for one, but these two article objects are exactly the same. So we actually don't even need this. That's it. This is now a functional edit page. We'll update the existing article in doctrine will know to update that record in the database. I'll just update my flash messages. Article updated in accuracy is squashed and then instead of redirecting to the list page, let's give this article this route in name Admin article edit and we will redirect there, but of course we need to pass the ID. That's in the wildcard. So article Arrow get and the controller is now done. Now we don't actually want to reuse the same twig template because it has things like launch a new article and the word create, so instead of going to change this to edit that html dot twig and then down in the templates directory, I'm going to copy the entire new template and change that to edit because the only thing is we need to change aren't really those two things, edits the article, and then down here instead of great. I will say update. 

So now when we refresh. 

Yep, it looks perfect in here. Let's change the content here a little bit. Hit update and we are back. This has been saved to the database just like that. Of course, I don't love having all this duplicated form logic, especially if we start customizing some more stuff. So when I'm going to do is actually create a new template called underscore form dot html twig. I'm prefixing this by underscore just to help me remember that this is not going to be a full page. This is going to be a little template, partial values, so I'm going to copy the entire form pasted inside of here. Then the one part that needs to change, if we can just turn this into a new variable, we'll call it button text. Then from edit we can use the include function to include the article you underscore form to html twig, and we can pass additional variables as the second argument. So I'll say button text set to update. We'll copy this and go to new, remove all of that duplicated stuff and say create. Perfect. So just to double check, this works. Yep, this still works fine. If we'd go to slash article slash new. Nice. It works as well. And just to make it easier to edit articles back on the list page, let's make a link to that new edit page. So let's open list that age spots and we'll add one more column here at the end. 

If a path to article admin article edits, passing an ID of article, that ID number, the link itself. We'll just use an icon FFA FFA dash pencil. Alright, let's try that out. Go back to that last page. Yeah, there we go. 

I mean click any of those. Go directly to that page and we've got it. So that's one of the great things about the form component is the edit in new pages are no different. In fact, the form component can't even tell the difference. All it knows is that if we don't pass it in the article, it will create one and then of course when we save that new one, doctrine will do an insert query and when we do pass it in, article form just says, okay, I'll just update that existing article and when we save that one, doctrine is smart enough to know that this exists in the database and to make an update.